# Requirements

## Functional Requirements

**FR1: Form Builder Interface** The system shall provide a drag-and-drop form builder interface with
three-panel layout: left palette (available form components), center canvas (form design area), and
right properties panel (selected field configuration).

**FR2: Form Component Palette** The palette shall include the following draggable components: text
input, email input, number input, select dropdown, textarea, file upload, checkbox, radio button
group, date picker, datetime picker, toggle switch, and section divider.

**FR3: Field Configuration** Users shall be able to configure each field with: label, unique name,
placeholder text, help text, validation rules (required, min/max values, min/max length, pattern
regex, email format), default values, disabled state, readonly state, and conditional visibility
rules.

**FR4: Select/Radio Options Management** For select dropdowns and radio button groups, users shall
be able to add, edit, remove, and reorder options with value/label pairs, and configure multi-select
capability for dropdowns.

**FR5: Form Settings** Users shall configure global form settings including: form title,
description, column layout (1-3 columns), field spacing, submission behavior, and form metadata.

**FR6: Draft and Publish Workflow** Users shall be able to save forms as drafts (private, editable)
and publish forms (generates secure token and public render URL, sets expiration date/time).

**FR7: Form Schema Validation** The system shall prevent duplicate field names, validate regex
patterns, ensure required fields have labels, and block publishing of forms with critical errors.

**FR8: Drag-and-Drop Reordering** Users shall be able to reorder form fields on the canvas via
drag-and-drop with visual feedback.

**FR9: Form Renderer - Token Access** The system shall provide a public-facing form renderer
accessible via tokenized URL (`/r/:token`) that validates token authenticity, publication status,
and expiration before rendering.

**FR10: Dynamic Form Generation** The renderer shall dynamically build Angular Reactive Forms from
the JSON schema, applying all configured validators and field properties.

**FR11: Conditional Visibility** The renderer shall support reactive conditional field visibility
based on `showIf` rules, automatically clearing values when fields are hidden.

**FR12: Form Validation and Submission** The renderer shall display inline validation error
messages, disable submit button while form is invalid or submitting, handle file uploads via
FormData, and submit captured values to the backend.

**FR13: Submission Storage** The system shall store form submissions with form ID, submitted values
object, submission timestamp, and optional user metadata (if authenticated).

**FR14: Builder-Renderer Parity** Published forms shall render identically to the builder preview,
ensuring WYSIWYG accuracy.

## Non-Functional Requirements

**NFR1: Performance** Form builder interface shall remain responsive with forms containing up to 100
fields. Form rendering shall complete within 500ms for forms with up to 50 fields.

**NFR2: Security** All render URLs shall use cryptographically secure signed tokens. The system
shall enforce expiration timestamps server-side. Public render and submission endpoints shall be
rate-limited (10 requests/minute per IP).

**NFR3: Validation** All form constraints shall be re-validated server-side on submission to prevent
client-side bypass.

**NFR4: Accessibility** All form fields shall have proper label associations and aria-describedby
attributes. Drag-drop functionality shall have keyboard alternatives (up/down arrow reordering).

**NFR5: Data Sanitization** All user-provided text (labels, help text, options) shall be sanitized
to prevent XSS injection.

**NFR6: Compatibility with Existing System** Form Builder shall maintain existing performance
characteristics. Memory usage shall not exceed current baseline by more than 15% when Form Builder
tool is active.

**NFR7: Internationalization** Validation error messages shall support localization. UI shall
support RTL languages where applicable.

**NFR8: Browser Support** Form renderer shall work in all browsers supported by existing application
(Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge - latest 2 versions).

## Compatibility Requirements

**CR1: Existing API Compatibility** All existing API endpoints (`/auth`, `/users`, `/tools`,
`/tokens`) shall remain unchanged. New form endpoints shall follow existing RESTful conventions and
versioning strategy.

**CR2: Database Schema Compatibility** New database tables (`forms`, `form_schemas`,
`form_submissions`) shall use existing PostgreSQL connection pooling and migration system.
Multi-tenancy support shall be maintained if enabled. New tables shall not modify existing user,
tenant, or tools table structures.

**CR3: UI/UX Consistency** Form Builder shall use existing PrimeNG 17+ components and Tailwind CSS
utilities. Layout shall follow existing tools component pattern (standalone Angular components with
OnPush change detection). Design shall match existing tool styles (SVG Drawing, Calendar, Todo App
navigation and layout).

**CR4: Integration Compatibility** Form Builder shall integrate with existing tools listing page.
New tool shall appear in tools navigation with appropriate role-based access control. Authentication
shall use existing JWT + Passport.js strategy. File uploads shall use existing file storage
configuration (DigitalOcean Spaces or local).

---
