# Epic List

**Epic 1: Foundation & Authentication Infrastructure** Establish project setup, Docker environment,
and complete JWT authentication system with seed users and basic frontend structure.

**Epic 2: API Documentation & Database Management** Implement Swagger documentation, database
integration, and pgWeb interface to create a fully documented and testable backend foundation.

**Epic 3: Multi-Tenancy & Configuration Framework** Build configurable multi-tenancy system with
environment toggles and admin interfaces to demonstrate the boilerplate's key differentiator.

**Epic 4: Production Readiness & Developer Experience** Finalize deployment configuration,
comprehensive documentation, testing framework, and quality assurance processes to achieve the
brief's professional-grade standards.

**Epic 5: API Token Management** Implement secure API token generation, management, and
authentication system for programmatic API access.

**Epic 6: DigitalOcean Avatar Storage** Integrate DigitalOcean Spaces for user avatar upload and
storage with CDN delivery.

**Epic 7: Tools Feature System** Build extensible tools platform with dynamic tool registration and
management interface.

**Epic 8: Enhanced Admin Tool Registration** Extend admin capabilities for tool configuration,
approval workflows, and system management.

**Epic 9: SVG Drawing Canvas Tool** Create SVG-based drawing tool with real-time collaboration and
export capabilities.

**Epic 10: Form Builder and Dynamic Form Renderer** Build comprehensive form creation system with
drag-drop builder, dynamic rendering, and submission management.

**Epic 11: Enhanced In-Place Field Editing with Live Preview** Transform Form Builder editing
experience with inline label editing, modal-based property configuration, and WYSIWYG field preview
rendering.

**Epic 12: Advanced Canvas Elements & Background Customization** Extend Form Builder with group
containers, background images, and custom HTML/CSS elements for richer form layouts and visual
customization.

**Epic 13: Row-Based Multi-Column Layout System** Implement flexible row-based layout with
configurable column counts per row, multi-field column support, and responsive mobile rendering.

**Epic 14: Multi-Field Columns & Public Rendering** Enable multiple fields per column with vertical
stacking, drag-drop reordering, and row-based rendering in public form views.

**Epic 15: Content Display Fields** Add non-input display fields (Heading, Text Block, Image,
Divider) with WYSIWYG editing and real-time preview.

**Epic 16: Field Properties System** Implement comprehensive field property configuration with
validation, conditional logic, placeholder customization, and advanced input settings.

**Epic 17: Dynamic Chart Type Selection for Analytics** Enable users to dynamically select and
change chart types (bar, line, pie, polar, radar, area, doughnut) for each field in form analytics
dashboard with persistent preferences.

**Epic 18: Image Gallery Selector** Add IMAGE_GALLERY field type to form builder that allows form
creators to upload multiple images and enables end-users to select one image from the gallery (radio
button behavior), storing the selected image key with visual selection feedback.

**Epic 19: Step Form (Multi-Step Wizard)** Add multi-step wizard functionality to the form builder,
enabling users to create guided, sequential forms that display one step at a time with navigation
controls, step progress indicators, and per-step validation for improved complex data collection
workflows.

**Epic 20: Form Builder Styling Theme System** Enable users to apply pre-designed visual themes
(colors, fonts, spacing, backgrounds) to their forms through a dropdown selector in the form builder
toolbar, providing instant visual transformations similar to Typeform or Google Forms theme systems
with 6-8 curated themes out-of-the-box, responsive breakpoint support, and usage-based sorting.
